# Udacity-pro_7_Communicate-Data-Findings
### Abstract:
This report introduces California’s climate system and a brief overview on the regional impact of changing climate patterns on droughts, wildfires, and other climate-related events. Temperature anomalies for the California region are calculated based on deviations from mean temperature for the 1960-1990 period. Additionally, monthly Palmer Drought Severity Index (PDSI) values from 1960-2016 in the California region are analyzed, classified along a spectrum of extreme drought events to extreme wet events (highly negative to highly positive PDSI value). Using data from Berkeley Earth, the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration, and other online sources, linear regressions were run to find how temperature anomalies correlate with both PDSI values and carbon dioxide levels. 
Preliminary results show that both global and California temperatures have been increasing since 1960 The linear regression models show that PDSI and temperature anomalies have a strong, negative correlation (p-value = 0.012), while temperature anomalies and carbon dioxide levels have a strong, positive correlation (p-value = 0.007). A linear model with dummy variables demonstrates that wet events have significant statistical correlation to temperature anomalies whereas drought events and temperature anomalies do not have a statistically significant relationship. 
### Introduction:
Climate change is one of the largest environmental threats humanity has ever faced. The burning of fossil fuels and anthropogenic carbon emissions have contributed to a global atmospheric CO2 content of 405 ppm(parts per million) by 2017, around 40% higher than the pre-industrial level of 280ppm back in the mid-1700s . Climate change encompasses global phenomena such as increased temperatures, sea level rise, and extreme weather events such as droughts and monsoons. At this current pace, the extent of climate change effects may cause catastrophic environmental and societal damage as the earth systems struggle to adapt to this unprecedented rate of change. Although climate change is a global phenomenon, its impacts can very heterogenous across different regions. The chosen region for this detailed climate study was California.
The first part of this analysis examines global and regional temperature trends using moving averages starting from 1895 to 2015. This is done primarily to visualize historical temperature trends and how California as a region compares to global average temperatures. Graphing historical temperature trends would also help show significant patterns 
The second part of the study draws relationships between climate parameters using statistical regression. California into temperature anomalies in California and how these may be correlated to atmospheric carbon dioxide levels and Palmer Drought Severity Index (PDSI) values, which use temperature and precipitation data to quantify long-term drought events. PDSI values can range anywhere from -10 (extreme dry conditions) and +10 (extreme wet conditions)
### Datasets:
There are 4 datasets I scraped from the internet and used in the report
>*1.	Global SST https://www.kaggle.com/berkeleyearth/climate-change-earth-surface-temperature-data
>*2.	CITY/COUNTY SST https://www.kaggle.com/berkeleyearth/climate-change-earth-surface-temperature-data
>*3.	CO2 atm level https://www.kaggle.com/ucsandiego/carbon-dioxide
>*4.	PDSI https://www.esrl.noaa.gov/psd/data/index.html
